[RDAPI-28228] EMT image delivery documentation (#2471)
Axway/axway-open-docs: content/en/docs/apim_howto_guides/configuring_apigw_container.md

{

>     "title": "Deploy API Gateway with Axway Images",

Reviewer: (Axway Images) --> sounds a bit abstract... could it be 'Axway Docker images', 'Axway containerized images', 'Axway Helm/chart images' ?

Author: Updated to 'Axway Docker images', ty!

{
    "title": "Deploy API Gateway with Axway docker Images",
    "linkTitle": "Deploy API Gateway with Axway docker Images",
    "weight": "30",
    "date": "2022-02-01",

>     "description": "A high level introduction to deploy the API Gateway with mounted volumes utilising Axway images or their own API Gateway images. This section details where to download the images and sample configuration files, and how to configure an API Gateway or Admin Node Manager or Analytics docker containers to use a persisted volume for customized configuration."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "description": "A high level introduction to deploy the API Gateway with mounted volumes utilising Axway images or custom-built images. This section details where to download the images and sample configuration files, and how to configure an API Gateway, Admin Node Manager or Analytics docker container to use a persisted volume for customized configuration."
```

}

The primary documentation for [API Gateway in containers](/docs/apim_installation/apigw_containers) outlines the creation of images and their deployment as containers. Another deployment methodology is to download axway images from [axway.repository.com](http://axway.repository.com/) and deploy the same images by updating the configuration using externalization in development and production environments.

The downloaded Admin Node Manager, API Gateway and Analytics images come with the default configuration and this configuration can be updated at runtime by externalizing the customized configuration files.

By default the image contains the yaml configuration, it can be updated with fed or vice versa by externalizing the deployment package(fed/yaml) as outlined in [Sample container configurations](/docs/apim_howto_guides/configuring_apigw_container/#sample-container-configurations).

We can also deploy API Gateway solution using helm chart for more information [Deploy API Gateway using Helm](/docs/apim_installation/apigw_containers/container_helm_deployment/)

### Download Axway docker images

> Download Axway docker images  i.e) Admin Node Manager, API Gateway and API Gateway Analytics from [axway.repository.com](http://axway.repository.com/).

Reviewer 2: Remove the ) after i.e

Author: Done!

The example tag for images looks like 7.7.0.20221130-20221126.011757-80-ubi7.

### How licenses work

By default the images come with no license file. In order to start the containers successfully, the license file must be externalized. See how to externalize a license file using docker run [Build EMT images without a license file](/docs/apim_howto_guides/apigw_in_containers/#build-emt-images-without-a-license-file)

> {{< alert title="Note" >}}The helm chart values.yaml has commented out sample license file, provide the valid license file to deploy and start the helm images successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}The helm chart values.yaml has commented out sample license file. Paste the contents of a valid license file into the appropriate sections of either the values.yaml file or the override yaml file to deploy and start the helm images successfully.
```

For Admin Node Manager the license file is optional but is required only when FIPS mode is on.

> For API Gateway and API Gateway Analytics the license file is must to run the pods successfully.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer 2: instead of 'is must' put 'is a requirement'

Author: Removed the helm info from here as we discussed. This will be covered as part of another ticket in helm page updates.

This process applies to API Gateway or Admin Node Manager configurations only, such as policy management, system property changes, environment settings, logging configurations, and son on.

> {{< alert title="Note" >}}The sample configuration files can be retrieved from the running container, copy the sample configuration you want to update from running container to your local machine. For example, Admin Node Manager envSettings.props file is available at apigateway/conf/envSettings.props.Use **docker cp** or **kubectl cp** to copy files to your local machine based on the environment. Update the file and mount it using docker volume/persistent storage at runtime.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}The sample configuration files can be retrieved from the running container. Copy the sample configuration you want to update from a running container on to your local machine. For example, Admin Node Manager envSettings.props file is available at apigateway/conf/envSettings.props. Use **docker cp** or **kubectl cp** to copy files to your local machine based on the environment. Update the file and mount it using docker volume/persistent storage at runtime.{{< /alert >}}
```

Author: Done, removed kubectl cp from here.

           -e ACCEPT_GENERAL_CONDITIONS=yes analytics:0.0.1
```

> {{< alert title="Note" >}}By default the Axway docker images doesn't contain the mysql jar, to run the API Gateway Analytics successfully need to externalize the mysql jar.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}By default the Axway docker images don't contain the mysql jar. To run the API Gateway Analytics successfully need to externalize the mysql jar.{{< /alert >}}
```

Author: Done, ty!

           -e ACCEPT_GENERAL_CONDITIONS=yes analytics:0.0.1
```

### Update domain certs at runtime

> By default the image contains the default domain certs, to update the domain certs, like other configurations jvm.xml, envSettings.props etc domain certs can be added to the docker container at runtime by way of the /merge/apigateway Docker volume. You must store these configurations locally, in a directory structure which mirrors /opt/Axway/apigateway subfolder structure inside the Docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the image contains the default domain certs. To update the domain certs, like other configurations such as  jvm.xml, envSettings.props etc, domain certs can be added to the docker container at runtime by way of the /merge/apigateway Docker volume. You must store these configurations locally, in a directory structure which mirrors /opt/Axway/apigateway subfolder structure inside the Docker container.
```

```bash
config
├── groups
   └── certs
       └── domaincert.pem
       └── private
           └── domainkey.pem
```

This folder structure is then mounted to the /merge/apigateway directory of the container.

> {{< alert title="Note" >}}When updating the domain certs at runtime, the ES_PASSPHRASE and DOMAIN_KEY_PASSPHRASE must be provided if present else takes the default passphrases.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}When updating the domain certs at runtime, the ES_PASSPHRASE and DOMAIN_KEY_PASSPHRASE must be provided if present, otherwise it takes the default passphrases.{{< /alert >}}
```

> During this process the ANM and AGW topology SSL certs gets created and signed by the domain certificates provided at runtime. To secure the communications between the Admin Node Manager and API Gateways, both the SSL certificates should get signed with the same domain certificate else there won't be any communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During this process the ANM and AGW topology SSL certs get created and signed by the domain certificates provided at runtime. To secure the communications between the Admin Node Manager and API Gateways, both the SSL certificates should be signed with the same domain certificate otherwise there won't be any communication between them.
```

### Set Group ID at runtime

> Group id can now be set at runtime as an environment variable, all the containers in the group are built with same image, which means contains the same configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Group id can now be set at runtime as an environment variable. All the containers in the group are built with same image, which means they contain the same configuration.
```

```bash
docker run -d --name=apimgr --network=api-gateway-domain \
           -p 8075:8075 -p 8065:8065 -p 8080:8080 \
           -v /tmp/emt/events:/opt/Axway/apigateway/events \
           -e EMT_DEPLOYMENT_ENABLED=true -e EMT_ANM_HOSTS=anm:8090 \
           -e CASS_HOST=casshost1 \
           -e METRICS_DB_URL=jdbc:mysql://metricsdb:3306/metrics?useSSL=false \
           -e METRICS_DB_USERNAME=root -e METRICS_DB_PASS=root01 \
           -e ACCEPT_GENERAL_CONDITIONS=yes \
           -e GROUP_ID=CustomEmtGroup \
           api-gateway-defaultgroup
```

### Restart command for helm

> Thi below command is used to restart the pods in the deployment to effect the externalization updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command below is used to restart the pods in the deployment to affect the externalization updates.
```

Author: Removed the helm info from here as we discussed. This will be covered as part of another ticket in helm page updates.
